doc/sources/distributed_daal4py.rst, before:

.. Copyright contributors to the oneDAL project
..
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. You may obtain a copy of the License at
..
..     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.
.. include:: substitutions.rst

.. _distributed_daal4py:

Distributed mode (daal4py, CPU)
===================================

Introduction
------------

Module :ref:`daal4py <about_daal4py>` within the |sklearnex| offers distributed versions of
some algorithms that can run on compute clusters managed through the
`MPI <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Message_Passing_Interface>`__ framework, optionally aided
by |mpi4py|.

Compared to the :ref:`SMPD mode <distributed>` in the ``sklearnex`` module which runs on multiple
GPUs, the distributed mode of algorithms in the ``daal4py`` module runs on CPU-based nodes - i.e.
it can be used to execute algorithms on multiple machines that hold different pieces of the data
each, communicating between themselves through the MPI framework; thereby allowing to scale the
same algorithms to much larger problem sizes.

.. figure:: d4p-kmeans-scale.jpg
    :align: center

    On a 32-node cluster (1280 cores) daal4py computed K-Means (10
    clusters) of 1.12 TB of data in 107.4 seconds and 35.76 GB of data
    in 4.8 seconds.

.. warning::

    Just like SPMD mode in ``sklearnex``, using distributed mode in ``daal4py`` requires
    the MPI runtime library managing the computations to be the same MPI backend library
    with which the |sklearnex| library was compiled. Distributions of the |sklearnex| in
    PyPI and conda are both compiled with `Intel's MPI <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/mpi-library.html>`__
    as MPI backend (offered as Python package ``impi_rt`` in both PyPI and conda): ::

        conda install -c https://software.repos.intel.com/python/conda/ impi_rt

    Using distributed mode with other backends such as OpenMPI requires compiling the
    library from source with that backend.

    See the docs for :ref:`SPMD mode <distributed>` for more details.

.. warning::

    If using distributed mode with the |mpi4py| library, that library must also be compiled
    with the same MPI backend as the |sklearnex|. A version of ``mpi4py`` compiled with
    Intel's MPI backend can be easily installed from Intel's conda channel (see docs for
    :ref:`SPMD mode <distributed>` for more details): ::

        conda install -c https://software.repos.intel.com/python/conda/ mpi4py

Using distributed mode
----------------------

In order to use distributed mode, the code to execute must be saved in a Python file,
and this Python file must be executed through an MPI runner (``mpiexec`` / ``mpirun``).
The MPI runner in turn is the software that handles aspects like which nodes to use,
inter-node communication, and so on. The same Python code in the file will be executed
on all nodes, so the Python code may contain some logic to load the right subset of the
data on each node, aided for example by the process rank assigned by MPI.

From the ``daal4py`` side, in order to use distributed mode, algorithm constructors must
be passed argument ``distributed=True``, method ``.compute()`` should be passed the right
subset of the data for each node, and after the distributed computations are finalized,
function :obj:`daal4py.daalfini` must be called before accessing the results object.

Example:

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: File ``distributed_qr.py``

    import daal4py
    import numpy as np
    NUM_NODES = daal4py.num_procs() # this the MPI world size
    THIS_NODE = daal4py.my_procid() # this is the MPI rank

    rng = np.random.RandomState(seed=123)
    X_full = rng.standard_normal(size=(100,5))
    subsets = np.split(np.arange(100), NUM_NODES)
    X_node = X_full[ subsets[THIS_NODE] ]

    qr_algo = daal4py.qr(distributed=True)
    qr_result = qr_algo.compute(X_node)

    daal4py.daalfini() # call before accessing the results

    # Matrix R (shape=[ncols, ncols]) is common for all nodes
    np.testing.assert_almost_equal(
        np.abs(  qr_result.matrixR  ),
        np.abs(  np.linalg.qr(X_full).R  ),
    )

    # Matrix Q (size=[nrows, ncols]) will be a subset of the full
    # result corresponding to the data from the node only
    np.testing.assert_almost_equal(
        np.abs(  qr_result.matrixQ  ),
        np.abs(  np.linalg.qr(X_full).Q[ subsets[THIS_NODE] ]  ),
    )

Then execute as follows - example can be executed on a single machine after installing package ``impi_rt``: ::

    mpirun -n 2 python distributed_qr.py

(can also use ``mpiexec`` on Linux)



.. note::
    QR factorization, unlike other linear algebra procedures, does not have a strictly unique
    solution - if the signs (+/-) of numbers are flipped for a particular column in both the Q
    and R matrices, they would still be valid and equivalent QR factorizations of the same
    original matrix 'X'.

    Procedures like Cholesky decomposition are typically constrained to have only positive signs
    in the main diagonal in order to make the results deterministic, but this is not always the
    case for QR in most software, hence the example above takes the absolute values when comparing
    results from different libraries.

In this simple example, all of the data was generated on each node and then subdivided;
and then the result was broadcasted to all nodes, but in practice:

- One might want to collect and serialize the result on only one node, which could be
  done for example by adding a condition like ``if THIS_NODE == 0``. For the particular
  case of QR, oftentimes only the R matrix is of interest, so it can be saved from only
  one of the nodes.
- One might have different files with different names for each node. Likely, one might
  want to have logic in the code to load different subsets of the data based on the rank
  of the process, for example ``pl.read_parquet(f"file{daal4py.my_procid()}.parquet")``.


Note that the example above used functions from ``daal4py`` to get the world size
(:obj:`daal4py.num_procs`) and process rank (:obj:`daal4py.my_procid`) from MPI. Module ``daal4py``
provides simple wrappers over these two MPI functions only, but for further MPI functionalities,
one can use the package |mpi4py| together with ``daal4py``.

Same example calling MPI functionalities from ``mpi4py`` instead:

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: File ``distributed_qr_mpi4py.py``

    import daal4py
    import numpy as np
    from mpi4py import MPI

    comm = MPI.COMM_WORLD
    NUM_NODES = comm.Get_size()
    THIS_NODE = comm.Get_rank()

    rng = np.random.RandomState(seed=123)
    X_full = rng.standard_normal(size=(100,5))
    subsets = np.split(np.arange(100), NUM_NODES)
    X_node = X_full[ subsets[THIS_NODE] ]

    qr_algo = daal4py.qr(distributed=True)
    qr_result = qr_algo.compute(X_node)

    daal4py.daalfini() # call before accessing results

    # Matrix R (shape=[ncols, ncols]) is common for all nodes
    np.testing.assert_almost_equal(
        np.abs(  qr_result.matrixR  ),
        np.abs(  np.linalg.qr(X_full).R  ),
    )

    # Matrix Q (size=[nrows, ncols]) will be a subset of the full
    # result corresponding to the data from the node only
    np.testing.assert_almost_equal(
        np.abs(  qr_result.matrixQ  ),
        np.abs(  np.linalg.qr(X_full).Q[ subsets[THIS_NODE] ]  ),
    )

Can be executed the same way as before: ::

    mpirun -n 2 python distributed_qr_mpi4py.py


Supported algorithms
--------------------

The following algorithms in ``daal4py`` have support for distributed mode:

- :obj:`PCA <daal4py.pca>`
- :obj:`QR decomposition <daal4py.qr>`
- :obj:`SVD <daal4py.svd>`
- :obj:`Linear Regression <daal4py.linear_regression_training>`
- :obj:`Ridge Regression <daal4py.ridge_regression_training>`
- :obj:`Multinomial Naive Bayes <daal4py.multinomial_naive_bayes_training>`
- :obj:`K-Means <daal4py.kmeans>`
- :obj:`DBSCAN <daal4py.dbscan>`
- :obj:`Covariance <daal4py.covariance>`
- :obj:`Moments of Low Order <daal4py.low_order_moments>`

Commit message:

DOC: More details for conda installs (#2475)
* add conda-forge channel for dependencies, mention incompatibilities with anaconda

* update commands also in .md file

* suggest impi install from conda-forge

* remove warning about conda-forge incompatibilities

* Update INSTALL.md

Co-authored-by: ethanglaser <42726565+ethanglaser@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update doc/sources/distributed-mode.rst

Co-authored-by: ethanglaser <42726565+ethanglaser@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update doc/sources/distributed-mode.rst

Co-authored-by: ethanglaser <42726565+ethanglaser@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: ethanglaser <42726565+ethanglaser@users.noreply.github.com>

doc/sources/distributed_daal4py.rst, after:

.. Copyright contributors to the oneDAL project
..
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. You may obtain a copy of the License at
..
..     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.
.. include:: substitutions.rst

.. _distributed_daal4py:

Distributed mode (daal4py, CPU)
===================================

Introduction
------------

Module :ref:`daal4py <about_daal4py>` within the |sklearnex| offers distributed versions of
some algorithms that can run on compute clusters managed through the
`MPI <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Message_Passing_Interface>`__ framework, optionally aided
by |mpi4py|.

Compared to the :ref:`SMPD mode <distributed>` in the ``sklearnex`` module which runs on multiple
GPUs, the distributed mode of algorithms in the ``daal4py`` module runs on CPU-based nodes - i.e.
it can be used to execute algorithms on multiple machines that hold different pieces of the data
each, communicating between themselves through the MPI framework; thereby allowing to scale the
same algorithms to much larger problem sizes.

.. figure:: d4p-kmeans-scale.jpg
    :align: center

    On a 32-node cluster (1280 cores) daal4py computed K-Means (10
    clusters) of 1.12 TB of data in 107.4 seconds and 35.76 GB of data
    in 4.8 seconds.

.. warning::

    Just like SPMD mode in ``sklearnex``, using distributed mode in ``daal4py`` requires
    the MPI runtime library managing the computations to be the same MPI backend library
    with which the |sklearnex| library was compiled. Distributions of the |sklearnex| in
    PyPI and conda are both compiled with `Intel's MPI <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/mpi-library.html>`__
    as MPI backend (offered as Python package ``impi_rt`` in both PyPI and conda): ::

        conda install -c https://software.repos.intel.com/python/conda/ -c conda-forge --override-channels impi_rt

    Using distributed mode with other backends such as OpenMPI requires compiling the
    library from source with that backend.

    See the docs for :ref:`SPMD mode <distributed>` for more details.

.. warning::

    If using distributed mode with the |mpi4py| library, that library must also be compiled
    with the same MPI backend as the |sklearnex|. A version of ``mpi4py`` compiled with
    Intel's MPI backend can be easily installed from Intel's conda channel (see docs for
    :ref:`SPMD mode <distributed>` for more details): ::

        conda install -c https://software.repos.intel.com/python/conda/ -c conda-forge --override-channels mpi4py

.. warning::
    Packages from the Intel channel are meant to be compatible with dependencies from ``conda-forge``, and might not work correctly
    in environments that have packages installed from the ``anaconda`` channel.

Using distributed mode
----------------------

In order to use distributed mode, the code to execute must be saved in a Python file,
and this Python file must be executed through an MPI runner (``mpiexec`` / ``mpirun``).
The MPI runner in turn is the software that handles aspects like which nodes to use,
inter-node communication, and so on. The same Python code in the file will be executed
on all nodes, so the Python code may contain some logic to load the right subset of the
data on each node, aided for example by the process rank assigned by MPI.

From the ``daal4py`` side, in order to use distributed mode, algorithm constructors must
be passed argument ``distributed=True``, method ``.compute()`` should be passed the right
subset of the data for each node, and after the distributed computations are finalized,
function :obj:`daal4py.daalfini` must be called before accessing the results object.

Example:

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: File ``distributed_qr.py``

    import daal4py
    import numpy as np
    NUM_NODES = daal4py.num_procs() # this the MPI world size
    THIS_NODE = daal4py.my_procid() # this is the MPI rank

    rng = np.random.RandomState(seed=123)
    X_full = rng.standard_normal(size=(100,5))
    subsets = np.split(np.arange(100), NUM_NODES)
    X_node = X_full[ subsets[THIS_NODE] ]

    qr_algo = daal4py.qr(distributed=True)
    qr_result = qr_algo.compute(X_node)

    daal4py.daalfini() # call before accessing the results

    # Matrix R (shape=[ncols, ncols]) is common for all nodes
    np.testing.assert_almost_equal(
        np.abs(  qr_result.matrixR  ),
        np.abs(  np.linalg.qr(X_full).R  ),
    )

    # Matrix Q (size=[nrows, ncols]) will be a subset of the full
    # result corresponding to the data from the node only
    np.testing.assert_almost_equal(
        np.abs(  qr_result.matrixQ  ),
        np.abs(  np.linalg.qr(X_full).Q[ subsets[THIS_NODE] ]  ),
    )

Then execute as follows - example can be executed on a single machine after installing package ``impi_rt``: ::

    mpirun -n 2 python distributed_qr.py

(can also use ``mpiexec`` on Linux)



.. note::
    QR factorization, unlike other linear algebra procedures, does not have a strictly unique
    solution - if the signs (+/-) of numbers are flipped for a particular column in both the Q
    and R matrices, they would still be valid and equivalent QR factorizations of the same
    original matrix 'X'.

    Procedures like Cholesky decomposition are typically constrained to have only positive signs
    in the main diagonal in order to make the results deterministic, but this is not always the
    case for QR in most software, hence the example above takes the absolute values when comparing
    results from different libraries.

In this simple example, all of the data was generated on each node and then subdivided;
and then the result was broadcasted to all nodes, but in practice:

- One might want to collect and serialize the result on only one node, which could be
  done for example by adding a condition like ``if THIS_NODE == 0``. For the particular
  case of QR, oftentimes only the R matrix is of interest, so it can be saved from only
  one of the nodes.
- One might have different files with different names for each node. Likely, one might
  want to have logic in the code to load different subsets of the data based on the rank
  of the process, for example ``pl.read_parquet(f"file{daal4py.my_procid()}.parquet")``.


Note that the example above used functions from ``daal4py`` to get the world size
(:obj:`daal4py.num_procs`) and process rank (:obj:`daal4py.my_procid`) from MPI. Module ``daal4py``
provides simple wrappers over these two MPI functions only, but for further MPI functionalities,
one can use the package |mpi4py| together with ``daal4py``.

Same example calling MPI functionalities from ``mpi4py`` instead:

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: File ``distributed_qr_mpi4py.py``

    import daal4py
    import numpy as np
    from mpi4py import MPI

    comm = MPI.COMM_WORLD
    NUM_NODES = comm.Get_size()
    THIS_NODE = comm.Get_rank()

    rng = np.random.RandomState(seed=123)
    X_full = rng.standard_normal(size=(100,5))
    subsets = np.split(np.arange(100), NUM_NODES)
    X_node = X_full[ subsets[THIS_NODE] ]

    qr_algo = daal4py.qr(distributed=True)
    qr_result = qr_algo.compute(X_node)

    daal4py.daalfini() # call before accessing results

    # Matrix R (shape=[ncols, ncols]) is common for all nodes
    np.testing.assert_almost_equal(
        np.abs(  qr_result.matrixR  ),
        np.abs(  np.linalg.qr(X_full).R  ),
    )

    # Matrix Q (size=[nrows, ncols]) will be a subset of the full
    # result corresponding to the data from the node only
    np.testing.assert_almost_equal(
        np.abs(  qr_result.matrixQ  ),
        np.abs(  np.linalg.qr(X_full).Q[ subsets[THIS_NODE] ]  ),
    )

Can be executed the same way as before: ::

    mpirun -n 2 python distributed_qr_mpi4py.py


Supported algorithms
--------------------

The following algorithms in ``daal4py`` have support for distributed mode:

- :obj:`PCA <daal4py.pca>`
- :obj:`QR decomposition <daal4py.qr>`
- :obj:`SVD <daal4py.svd>`
- :obj:`Linear Regression <daal4py.linear_regression_training>`
- :obj:`Ridge Regression <daal4py.ridge_regression_training>`
- :obj:`Multinomial Naive Bayes <daal4py.multinomial_naive_bayes_training>`
- :obj:`K-Means <daal4py.kmeans>`
- :obj:`DBSCAN <daal4py.dbscan>`
- :obj:`Covariance <daal4py.covariance>`
- :obj:`Moments of Low Order <daal4py.low_order_moments>`
