doc/sources/distributed-mode.rst, before:

.. Copyright 2021 Intel Corporation
..
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. You may obtain a copy of the License at
..
..     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.

.. include:: substitutions.rst

.. _distributed:

Distributed Mode (SPMD)
=======================

|sklearnex| offers Single Program, Multiple Data (SPMD) supported interfaces for distributed computing.
Several :doc:`GPU-supported algorithms <oneapi-gpu>`
also provide distributed, multi-GPU computing capabilities via integration with |mpi4py|. The prerequisites
match those of GPU computing, along with an MPI backend of your choice (`Intel MPI recommended
<https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/mpi-library.html#gs.dcan6r>`_, available
via ``impi_rt`` python package) and the |mpi4py| python package. If using |sklearnex|
`installed from sources <https://github.com/uxlfoundation/scikit-learn-intelex/blob/main/INSTALL.md#build-from-sources>`_,
ensure that the spmd_backend is built.

.. important::
  SMPD mode requires the |mpi4py| package used at runtime to be compiled with the same MPI backend as the |sklearnex|. The PyPI and Conda distributions of |sklearnex| both use Intel's MPI as backend, and hence require an |mpi4py| also built with Intel's MPI - it can be easily installed from Intel's conda channel as follows::
    
    conda install -c https://software.repos.intel.com/python/conda/ mpi4py

  It also requires the MPI runtime executable (``mpiexec`` / ``mpirun``) to be from the same library that was used to compile the |sklearnex| - Intel's MPI runtime library is offered as a Python package ``impi_rt`` and will be installed together with the ``mpi4py`` package if executing the command above, but otherwise, it can be installed separately from different distribution channels:

  - Intel's conda channel (recommended)::

      conda install -c https://software.repos.intel.com/python/conda/ impi_rt

  - Conda-Forge::

      conda install -c conda-forge impi_rt

  - PyPI (not recommended, might require setting additional environment variables)::

      pip install impi_rt

  Using other MPI backends (e.g. OpenMPI) requires building |sklearnex| from source with that backend.

Note that |sklearnex| supports GPU offloading to speed up MPI operations. This is supported automatically with
some MPI backends, but in order to use GPU offloading with Intel MPI, it is required to set the environment variable ``I_MPI_OFFLOAD`` to ``1`` (providing
data on device without this may lead to a runtime error):

- On Linux*::
    
    export I_MPI_OFFLOAD=1

- On Windows*::
    
    set I_MPI_OFFLOAD=1

SMPD-aware versions of estimators can be imported from the ``sklearnex.spmd`` module. Data should be distributed across multiple nodes as
desired, and should be transfered to a |dpctl| or `dpnp <https://github.com/IntelPython/dpnp>`__ array before being passed to the estimator.

Note that SPMD estimators allow an additional argument ``queue`` in their ``.fit`` / ``.predict`` methods, which accept :obj:`dpctl.SyclQueue` objects. For example, while the signature for :obj:`sklearn.linear_model.LinearRegression.predict` would be

.. code-block:: python

    def predict(self, X): ...

The signature for the corresponding predict method in ``sklearnex.spmd.linear_model.LinearRegression.predict`` is:

.. code-block:: python

    def predict(self, X, queue=None): ...

Examples of SPMD usage can be found in the GitHub repository for the |sklearnex| under `examples/sklearnex <https://github.com/uxlfoundation/scikit-learn-intelex/blob/main/examples/sklearnex>`__.

To run on SPMD mode, first create a python file using SPMD estimators from ``sklearnex.spmd``, such as `linear_regression_spmd.py <https://github.com/uxlfoundation/scikit-learn-intelex/blob/main/examples/sklearnex/linear_regression_spmd.py>`__.

Then, execute the file through MPI under multiple ranks - for example:

- On Linux*::
    
    mpirun -n 4 python linear_regression_spmd.py

- On Windows*::
    
    mpiexec -n 4 python linear_regression_spmd.py

Note that additional ``mpirun`` arguments can be added as desired. SPMD-supported estimators are listed in the :ref:`spmd-support` section.

Additionally, ``daal4py`` (previously a separate package, now an importable module within ``scikit-learn-intelex``) offers some distributed functionality, see
`documentation <https://intelpython.github.io/daal4py/scaling.html>`_ for further details.

Commit message:

DOC: Document selected daal4py sections in sklearnex, add full API reference section (#2395)
* add sections about d4p plus full api docs as section

* remove reference to daal4py from readme

* typo

* Update doc/sources/about_daal4py.rst

Co-authored-by: Ian Faust <icfaust@gmail.com>

* Update doc/sources/distributed_daal4py.rst

Co-authored-by: Ian Faust <icfaust@gmail.com>

* mention incremental sklearn algorithms in streaming d4p section

* break down explanation for using d4p algorithms

* Update doc/sources/distributed_daal4py.rst

Co-authored-by: Ian Faust <icfaust@gmail.com>

* add new RNGs

* more missing entries

* reword model builders

* mention logreg in model builders title

* more details about daal4py

* fix broken links

* add better article from intel

* Update doc/sources/distributed_daal4py.rst

Co-authored-by: Victoriya Fedotova <viktoria.nn@gmail.com>

* Update doc/sources/daal4py.rst

Co-authored-by: Victoriya Fedotova <viktoria.nn@gmail.com>

* Update doc/daal4py/scaling.rst

Co-authored-by: Victoriya Fedotova <viktoria.nn@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Ian Faust <icfaust@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Victoriya Fedotova <viktoria.nn@gmail.com>

doc/sources/distributed-mode.rst, after:

.. Copyright 2021 Intel Corporation
..
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. You may obtain a copy of the License at
..
..     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.

.. include:: substitutions.rst

.. _distributed:

SPMD (multi-GPU distributed mode)
=================================

|sklearnex| offers Single Program, Multiple Data (SPMD) supported interfaces for distributed computations on multi-GPU setups
(see the :ref:`distributed mode on daal4py <distributed_daal4py>` for distributed algorithms on CPU).

Several :doc:`GPU-supported algorithms <oneapi-gpu>`
also provide distributed, multi-GPU computing capabilities via integration with |mpi4py|. The prerequisites
match those of GPU computing, along with an MPI backend of your choice (`Intel MPI recommended
<https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/mpi-library.html#gs.dcan6r>`_, available
via ``impi_rt`` python package) and the |mpi4py| python package. If using |sklearnex|
`installed from sources <https://github.com/uxlfoundation/scikit-learn-intelex/blob/main/INSTALL.md#build-from-sources>`_,
ensure that the spmd_backend is built.

.. important::
  SMPD mode requires the |mpi4py| package used at runtime to be compiled with the same MPI backend as the |sklearnex|. The PyPI and Conda distributions of |sklearnex| both use Intel's MPI as backend, and hence require an |mpi4py| also built with Intel's MPI - it can be easily installed from Intel's conda channel as follows::
    
    conda install -c https://software.repos.intel.com/python/conda/ mpi4py

  It also requires the MPI runtime executable (``mpiexec`` / ``mpirun``) to be from the same library that was used to compile the |sklearnex| - Intel's MPI runtime library is offered as a Python package ``impi_rt`` and will be installed together with the ``mpi4py`` package if executing the command above, but otherwise, it can be installed separately from different distribution channels:

  - Intel's conda channel (recommended)::

      conda install -c https://software.repos.intel.com/python/conda/ impi_rt

  - Conda-Forge::

      conda install -c conda-forge impi_rt

  - PyPI (not recommended, might require setting additional environment variables)::

      pip install impi_rt

  Using other MPI backends (e.g. OpenMPI) requires building |sklearnex| from source with that backend.

Note that |sklearnex| supports GPU offloading to speed up MPI operations. This is supported automatically with
some MPI backends, but in order to use GPU offloading with Intel MPI, it is required to set the environment variable ``I_MPI_OFFLOAD`` to ``1`` (providing
data on device without this may lead to a runtime error):

- On Linux*::
    
    export I_MPI_OFFLOAD=1

- On Windows*::
    
    set I_MPI_OFFLOAD=1

SMPD-aware versions of estimators can be imported from the ``sklearnex.spmd`` module. Data should be distributed across multiple nodes as
desired, and should be transfered to a |dpctl| or `dpnp <https://github.com/IntelPython/dpnp>`__ array before being passed to the estimator.

Note that SPMD estimators allow an additional argument ``queue`` in their ``.fit`` / ``.predict`` methods, which accept :obj:`dpctl.SyclQueue` objects. For example, while the signature for :obj:`sklearn.linear_model.LinearRegression.predict` would be

.. code-block:: python

    def predict(self, X): ...

The signature for the corresponding predict method in ``sklearnex.spmd.linear_model.LinearRegression.predict`` is:

.. code-block:: python

    def predict(self, X, queue=None): ...

Examples of SPMD usage can be found in the GitHub repository for the |sklearnex| under `examples/sklearnex <https://github.com/uxlfoundation/scikit-learn-intelex/blob/main/examples/sklearnex>`__.

To run on SPMD mode, first create a python file using SPMD estimators from ``sklearnex.spmd``, such as `linear_regression_spmd.py <https://github.com/uxlfoundation/scikit-learn-intelex/blob/main/examples/sklearnex/linear_regression_spmd.py>`__.

Then, execute the file through MPI under multiple ranks - for example:

- On Linux*::
    
    mpirun -n 4 python linear_regression_spmd.py

- On Windows*::
    
    mpiexec -n 4 python linear_regression_spmd.py

(and remember to set ``I_MPI_OFFLOAD=1`` for Intel's MPI before calling ``mpirun``/``mpiexec``)

Note that additional ``mpirun`` arguments can be added as desired. SPMD-supported estimators are listed in the :ref:`spmd-support` section.
